Every six months Ubuntu developers treat us to a brand new release and this is the latest Ubuntu 23.04 Luna Lobster. In this video I showcase the biggest changes in Ubuntu 23.04 so whether you're a long term fan looking to upgrade or a dystro hopper debating a switch, let's check out the changes. Ubuntu 23.04 comes with a brand new Installer, built using Flutter and Dart, and utilising Ubuntu's modern server-installer technologies. Aside from just working better, the new installer maintains all the features of the old one and is just as easy-to-use. In particular, the partition manager, often glitchy in ubiquity, is notably improved. In all, a job well done, this aCE new installer makes an aCE first impression and is topped off by an illustrious and informative new installer slideshow. With this release there's an official mini ISO image. clocks in at just 150 megabytes and lets you install Ubuntu entirely over the web using the magic of the internet. COMMENTS As a Gnome Based Linux Distro you won't be shocked to hear that the bulk of user facing changes in Ubuntu 23.04 come courtesy of Gnomesome slick refinements. Toggles now use subtitles to display more information at a glance, such as the name of the wifi network you're connected to, or which power mode is active. Connecting to your bluetooth devices is much easier in this release as the bluetooth toggle now has a sub menu. From here you can see a list of previously paired devices alongside options to instantly connect or disconnect to them. Better yet, the name of a connector device is shown in the bluetooth toggle subtitles. monotone sound. Two smaller changes that make a big difference in this release One, the Speaker icon in the volume bar. You can now click that to instantly mute sound. And two, all of the quick settings actions are now keyboard navigable resulting in a big buff for accessibility. Nice one! The settings app isn't the first place most people go to when they're looking for new features but there are some additions here what worth knowing about. You can now加 in & configure Wireguard VPN connections in the network with the author to schedule one-on-one chats or crime-free sessions. You can share Wi-Fi passwords with other users as QR codes. And the mouse and touchpad section has had a massive makeover, gaining new options, such as a toggle for disabling mouse acceleration and their new instructive animations to help you pick a preferred scrolling behavior. Finally, an Easter egg for Ubuntu users who also installed the tiling assistant known 1-2 desktop settings panel and a sneak peek at its software.improvement plan Bedium icon view size is back. There are some new Tab menu options, and you can finally copy images from the web or other applications and paste them as a new image file in the file manager. I like that change. That is like great for like pillaging memes. Ever been annoyed by the lack of thumbnail icon view in the GTK app picker? I know I have. Well, no more. GNOME developers have finally added a thumbnail mode. When the file picker is opened, you can click on the view button to switch from list view with its itty bitty tiny icons to a thumbnail mode with larger file previews… I know pretending that this is a big OS highlight in 2023 is a little bit of a stretch, but still it's better late than never. Then there's Firefox… Yes, there is a business model in 2012 chasing os foraloader efforts… Let's get the law in place here, I think it is fun. …with it growing into Minecraft, Chewing Tom right outside your home. Yes, yes that's better late than never. Dream fix… As you'd expect, you get the latest version of Mozilla Firefox as a Snap app, which I'm pleased to say does start up faster than in previous versions. there's also an elegant new version of thunderbird emoteneeds. And Libre offers 7.5 with improved support for Dark Mode, better PDF export options and more. If you use Flatpak apps on Ubuntu and if you're not you're missing out, you'll start to notice a new background app section in the quick settings menu. This appears whenever a Flatpak app is running without a visible window, giving you the option to ah, now that it is running, or quit it, or open the application settings so you can stop it from running in the background in future. So that was a look at the Luna Lobster, a kooky codename but a pretty sedate release overall focused on refinement and enhancement and improvement rather than change for change's sake If you're on Ubunto 2210 then upgrading to 2304 is a bit of a no-brainer. You get Gnome 44, Linuxkernel, an updated Gx-drive, incl. softwares but if you're an LTS user is there much here likely to tempt you into upgrading? Probably not You can leave this lobster down the sea Down the sea? Thats not even a thing Ok, so let me know which Ubuntu 23.04 features you love down in the comments and don't forget to stop by the blog to say hi and catch up with all the latest Ubuntu developments Finally, a massive shout out to the 143 people who over to date bought me a coffee Your small gesture has a massive impact as it allows me to keep on doing what I others I've shared with.